{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20860\viewh9960\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 User Design Experience (UX) - Wojtek Kutyla\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Keeping asking Why? for UX design. \
{\listtext	2.	}GDS digital principles (government digital systems)\
{\listtext	3.	}google analytics - worth looking at\
{\listtext	4.	}Monzo - modern bank - worth seeing how they work (good exemplar)\
{\listtext	5.	}Google android is open source so it is easy to create rubbish. Apple has locked down all its code so inaccessible. \
{\listtext	6.	}Business needs often dominate user\'92s needs and as a result the websites are poor. \
{\listtext	7.	}Ask him about UX:\
{\listtext	8.	}how websites work\
{\listtext	9.	}product development \
{\listtext	10.	}guidance and best practice,\
{\listtext	11.	}#ux Slack channel code clan\
{\listtext	12.	}UXPin - prototyping for all students (visualisation, mock up of websites to see how they work, a web testing facility\
{\listtext	13.	}Will get an email shortly as an invite to join ux\
{\listtext	14.	}He will speak to us at regular intervals when ux is relevant to our projects\
{\listtext	15.	}Capture is having to put in a word physically on a site to check you are not a robot - free with Google lazy coding can be avoided with Honeypot. \
{\listtext	16.	} timewellspent.com - taking your time by using technologies that mean you don\'92t spend so much online.\
{\listtext	17.	}\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
wojtek.kutyla@codeclan.com\
\
Friends TDD\
\
do the stupidest test to get the code to work that is incorrect but that will lead to the right code}